Write about a family who decides to camp out in the back yard during a power outage.

Write about a character who’s stuck in an elevator when the power goes out.

Write a story where the power goes out on a spaceship or submarine.

Write about someone who purposefully causes a power outage.

Write a story that starts with someone writing their will — one they know people won’t like.

Write a story about someone who travels to the future, and isn’t happy about how they’ve been remembered.

Write a story about someone who’s famous for something they never actually did.

Write a humorous story about the descendant of someone remembered for an insignificant act.

Journaling -

    My favorite way to spend the day is…

    If I could talk to my teenage self, the one thing I would say is…

    The two moments I’ll never forget in my life are… Describe them in great detail, and what makes them so unforgettable.
    
    Make a list of 30 things that make you smile.

    “Write about a moment experienced through your body. Making love, making breakfast, going to a party, having a fight, an experience you’ve had or you imagine for your character. Leave out thought and emotion, and let all information be conveyed through the body and senses.” (A prompt from Barbara Abercrombie’s creative book Kicking In The Wall: A Year of Writing Exercises, Prompts and Quotes To Help You Break Through Your Blocks And Reach Your Writing Goals.)
    
    The words I’d like to live by are…
    
    I couldn’t imagine living without…
    
    When I’m in pain — physical or emotional — the kindest thing I can do for myself is…
    
    Make a list of the people in your life who genuinely support you, and who you can genuinely trust. (Then make time to hang out with them.)
    
    What does unconditional love look like for you?
    
    What would you do if you loved yourself unconditionally? How can you act on these things whether you do or don’t?
    
    I really wish others knew this about me…
    
    Name what is enough for you.
    
    If my body could talk, it would say…
    
    Name a compassionate way you’ve supported a friend recently. Then write down how you can do the same for yourself.
    
    What do you love about life?
    
    What always brings tears to your eyes? (As Paulo Coelho has said, “Tears are words that need to be written.”)
    
    “Write about a time when work felt real to you, necessary and satisfying. Paid or unpaid, professional or domestic, physical or mental.” (Also a prompt from Abercrombie’s Kicking in the Wall.)
    
    Write about your first love — whether a person, place or thing.
    
    Using 10 words, describe yourself.
    
    What’s surprised you the most about your life or life in general?
    
    What can you learn from your biggest mistakes?
    
    I feel most energized when…
    
    “Write a list of questions to which you urgently need answers.” (This is probably my favorite prompt from Abercrombie’s book.)
    
    Make a list of everything that inspires you — from books to websites to quotes to people to paintings to stores to the stars.
    
    What’s one topic you need to learn more about to help you live a more fulfilling life? (Then learn about it.)
    
    I feel happiest in my skin when…
    
    Make a list of everything you’d like to say no to.
    
    Make a list of everything you’d like to say yes to.
    
    Write the words you need to hear.

Sci-fi -

    A sentient being has landed on your planet and your civilization's military has confronted it at the landing site of its ship. You are sent closer as a mediator and encounter a mass of energy that has no form but communicates with you in your language.
    
    Your spaceship has landed on an unknown planet and there is data showing lifeforms who have created artistic structures. There is an artist in your group who wants to make first contact with the beings through art.
    
    We discover that beneath its seemingly uninhabitable appearance, Mars has an entire race of subterranean alien lifeforms living on it. You are part of the team sent to explore this civilization.
    
    Through A.I. technology, we have found a way to create robots indistinguishable from humans. They begin to take on a life of their own, out of our control, and we find that an alien species has hacked them through a type of consciousness transfer. If something isn't done soon, they will destroy us and take over our planet.
    
    As part of a fleet of explorers, you encounter an alien species that is far more advanced than humans. They have found ways to heal all diseases and do not participate in war, leaving the beings to survive far longer than the human lifespan. Believing they have much to teach you, you wish to stay on their planet, causing conflict within your fleet.
    
    Aliens have invaded our planet but refuse to communicate with us. Instead, they attempt to communicate with animals, and seem to communicate with them quite well. Immediately, the animals of our planet start to turn on us, our pets included.
    
    A malevolent alien species has descended upon Earth and uses mind control to suppress our military and law enforcement defenses. However, there is one group that their mind control doesn't work on: those who are children.
    
    The Earth has reached its breaking point after global warming and widespread disease, and a group of aliens arrive to help humans rebuild the planet they have destroyed.
    
    Aboard your stranded spaceship, you begin to notice metal turning into a biological substance resembling trees and vines. An invisible alien entity that has made its way onboard is helping you create a sustainable biological atmosphere to keep you alive until you reach a habitable planet.
    
    Your ship has landed on a world that has everything needed to sustain life. You're part of the group sent out to confront any inhabitants on the planet. You find them, and they look just like humans, but their superhuman abilities set them apart. Their leader informs you that they are the descendants of humans and another alien race that settled the planet centuries earlier.
    
    Aliens have landed on Earth and they are all female forms. In an effort to return human tribes to matriarchal cultures, they enslave all the men and elevate women to positions of power within the government.
    
    Earth has become uninhabitable and you're tasked with finding a new planet where humans can live. In the search, you come across a planet inhabited by beings who are half animal/half man, and have set up societies much like packs of animals do, with alpha leaders and pack hunting traits.

    You're in the space program and have been recently tasked with interpreting communications coming in from another planet outside of our own solar system. The lifeform on the other end doesn't speak any known human language but communicates through musical patterns that create a kind of "call and response" sound that reflects the musicality of the language spoken to them.
    
    In the very near future, aliens have landed on Earth and have hacked every smartphone on the planet. Through them, they quickly learn our culture and most intimate secrets, and use the control to blackmail humans into doing various tasks.
    
    An alien civilization has contacted us through our space program with the warning that our world is on the brink of total destruction. Through their advanced technology, the aliens see the imminent death of our sun, and offer us the opportunity to re-colonize on their home planet. The only problem is: only 5,000 humans can go.
    
    The new world your crew has discovered is full of angel-like beings who move gracefully and are fiercely protective of humans. They have visited your world multiple times in the past (thus inspiring stories of guardian angels) and this is the first time you're visiting theirs.
    
    Alien lifeforms have started making themselves known, although they've been in our midst for centuries. The way they've stayed hidden is they shapeshift into felines, and have been observing us undercover in their roles of house pets and street dwellers.
    
    With heavy firepower, your crew has landed on a planet known to have hostile aliens that seem reptilian in their appearance. The terrain is comprised of swampland and the reptilian beings live underwater. You've put on a protective wetsuit and you're now leaving the ship to explore for the first time.
    
    An alien who has been living undercover on Earth is able to maintain his human form for a limited amount of time each day before it reverts back into his original non-humanoid form. He hurries home each day before this happens, but today, he's stuck on the commuter train that has broken down and there's no way off.
    
    A malevolent alien species arrives to Earth to take over. They spread a virus that kills off the majority of the human population and mate with the most beautiful women to create half-alien/half-human beings to replace those who have died.

Thriller -

You go to visit your neighbor. When you ring the doorbell, a stranger appears and tells you that your neighbor has been dead for ten years.

Write a story about a character who can't figure out when they're dreaming or awake.

Write a story in which you are an author trying to run from writer's block, which is an actual object that's chasing you.

You are hypnotist in the middle of your regular routine. Suddenly, you realize your powers have become real. What do you do?

You are a therapist and your new patient has a rare but extreme phobia. And you're about to find out why.

A newly married couple are on their honeymoon in a sleepy, beachside town. They begin to have the same nightmares every night.

Horror - 

You live alone and have just finished playing at your piano. Someone starts clapping for you.

As you turn the corner, a passing stranger palms you a set of keys. “It’s parked over there,” they whisper.

Romance -

Write a story from the different perspectives of two people meeting for a blind date. 

Write a story about high school sweethearts coming across one another after many, many years apart.

Write a story about summer love — the quarantine edition.

Twenty minutes before you are about to get married, you find your mother and your fiancé kissing passionately.

Write a story about someone falling in love for the first time.

Write a sweeping romantic tale of two lovers who must overcome the horror of being hunted by an unseen foe.

Write a short story about someone searching for the perfect gift for their partner.

Write a story about unrequited love.

You are a zookeeper and a guest keeps using dumb animal puns like "You are foxy" and "You are dino-mite" around you.

Fantasy - 

One day, the sun rose in the west and set in the east.

Write a story about someone who finds a magical portal in their home.

Before bed, you put your clock ahead one hour for daylight saving time. When you wake up, you realize you've gone forward a lot more than one hour.

Write about a person who meets with the ghost of an old friend for tea every so often.

Write a story in which the lines between awake and dreaming are blurred.

You go for a walk in fresh snow. Suddenly you realize you're not leaving any footprints.

It's just been discovered that luck is a hereditary trait.

For hundreds of years, it's been thought that all of the land has been discovered. But that's not true, and you're about to prove it.